.Dd March 25, 2024
.Dt MIXXC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mixxc
.Nd minimalistic volume mixer
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Mixxc is a volume mixer for managing application volume levels, focused on providing a high level of customization for widget users and creators.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag \-width Ds
.It Fl w , Fl \-width Ar px
In horizontal bar orientation it affects only the base width of the window and will not change.
In vertical, it's used to specify width of each audio client.
.It Fl h , Fl \-height Ar px
In vertical bar orientation it only affects the base height of the window and will not change.
In horizontal, it will be ignored if window requires more space.
.It Fl s , Fl \-spacing Ar px
Space gap between audio clients in pixels.
.It Fl a , Fl \-anchor Ar side
Snap window to the side of the screen. Can be specified multiple times.

.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
t, top
.It
b, bottom
.It
l, left
.It
r, right
.El
.It Fl A , Fl \-active
Sliders that are associated with paused media players will be hidden and reappear only when playback is resumed.
.It Fl C , Fl \-accent
Reads an accent-color property from the system settings
.Xr xdg-settings 1
and applies the color to the user style.
.It Fl m , Fl \-margin Ar px
Distance that window will keep from each anchor point respectively.
.It Fl M , Fl \-master
Show a volume slider for the default audio sink.
.It Fl b , Fl \-bar Ar orientation
Changes orientation of audio sliders.

.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
h, horizontal
.It
v, vertical
.El
.It Fl u , Fl \-userstyle Ar file
Specify path to userstyle. By default,
.Nm
will attempt to read style file from $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mixxc, with priority for CSS supersets.

.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
\&.css
.It
\&.scss (Feature: Sass)
.It
\&.sass (Feature: Sass)
.El
.It Fl k , Fl \-close
Close window when focus is lost and mouse is no longer hovering over it.
.It Fl i , Fl \-icon
Show icons that applications provide or display a generic reactive volume icon.
If not all application icons are displayed properly, you might need to update icon cache
.Xr gtk4-update-icon-cache 1
or update $XDG_DATA_DIRS.
.It Fl x , Fl \-max\-volume Ar n
Highest achievable volume level in percents.
.br
Minimum is 1. Default is 100. Maximum is 255.
.It Fl P , Fl \-per\-process
Create only a single slider per system process and control all related sinks through it, keeping all clients with the same volume state.
.It Fl v , Fl \-version
Print version information.
.It Fl \-help
Print help information.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev PULSE_PEAK_RATE
Integer value that controls frequency at which audio server probes audio tracks for loudness in an allowed dynamic range.
Setting this value to 0 significantly reduces number of window redraws and CPU usage.
.It Ev GTK_DEBUG
Every GTK related message will be ignored and not printed if GTK_DEBUG variable is not set.
.El 
.Sh FILES
.Bl -compact -tag -width Ds
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mixxc/style.css
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mixxc/style.scss
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mixxc/style.sass
.El
.Sh FEATURES
Here's a list of features that can be included or excluded at compile time.
Excluding some of them might lead to a smaller binary size and performance improvements.
.Bl -ohang
.It - Accent
Support for system accent color.
.It - Sass
Support for CSS supersets.
.It - X11
Support for X Window System.
.It - Wayland
Support for Wayland.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Open mixxc in the bottom right corner with some spacing.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ mixxc --anchor bottom	--margin 20 \\
	--anchor right	--margin 20
.Ed

Using short options to switch to vertical slider orientation with icons, set width and height for each one of them.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ mixxc -b v -i -w 75 -h 350
.Ed

GTK4 supports multiple rendering backends which might improve startup time, memory usage or fix graphical glitches.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ GSK_RENDERER=help mixxc
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
Elvyria <elvyria@tutanota.com>
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -ohang
.It Firefox (123.0.1.1)
.Bl -bullet
.It
Muted playback removes audio sink and discards playback description information when unmuted.
.It
Jumping to any part of a video playback results in `Remove <-> Create` request instead of `Modify`, while jumping to any part of an audio playback works as expected.
.It
Volume levels are never requested from audio server, this causes desynchronization between volume levels.
.El

These problems are exclusive to Firefox and might not appear under Chromium based browsers.
.El
